Whenever people ask me the best way to get started in research my answer is always email. 
Email is a useful tool, but can cause you problems later on.
In this repository I will share drafts of good emails, as well as how to know when to reach out to falculty.

WHICH FACULTY MEMBER SHOULD I CONTACT?

When deciding what faculty members I wanted to contact about working with, I first looked at my past and current professors. I tried to gage their personality on class and decide if we would get along. 
You should always pick a potential mentor by:
      1. Research you find genuinly intresting and can see yourself working on
      2. A friendly personality that you would WORK well with. (Know if you would rather have a hands on mentor or a more independent work enviorment)

HOW SHOULD I EMAIL MY FACULTY MEMBER?

First, I always reccomend using your school provided email when messaging faculty within the same school. This helps them know who you are. 
   Introduce yourself: Even if you have talked in person I would always start my first email with an introduction to myself and how the faculty member knows me. 
     Example: 
           Hello Dr. Hawkins, 
              My name is Jane Goodall and I am in your Introduction to Genetics class. 
    NOTE: I say "Dr. Hawkins". The faculty member may not always be a "Dr.". You should always check their school website and use the proper terms.
              
Second, I get right to the point of why I am emailing them. 
     Example: 
             I am emailing you today to discuss a possibility of working as an undergraduate researcher. 
             
Third, make it personal. Show the faculty what you are intrested in and use examples. 
     Example: 
              I really enjoyed your lecture on ________ and noticed you also disscussed your similar research project _________. 
              
Fourth, conclude in a polite way and allow them to reach back out to schedule a time to meet.
     Example: 
              Let me know if you are available to meet in person and discuss possible options. 
                    Thank you for your time, 
                    Jane Goodall
So my example of a good introductory email looks like: 
         Hello Dr. Hawkins, 
              My name is Jane Goodall and I am in your Introduction to Genetics class. 
              I am emailing you today to discuss a possibility of working as an undergraduate researcher.
              I really enjoyed your lecture on ________ and noticed you also disscussed your similar research project _________. 
              Let me know if you are available to meet in person and discuss possible options. 
                    Thank you for your time, 
                    Jane Goodall
                    
WHAT SHOULD I DO AFTER THEY EMAIL ME BACK?

After the faculty member responds to your email (hopefully with a meeting time). Make sure to WRITE IT DOWN. You will want to make a good first impression.
Be punctual for your first meeting and come prepared with questions. 

WHAT SHOULD I DO BEFORE OUR FIRST MEETING?

The first meeting is for both you and the possible mentor to decide if you would be a good fit. You should come prepared with questions. Some examples of mine are going to be listed.
Make sure you understand, the type of mentor the faculty member is, the type of lab setting your would be in, and the research project. 
Also make sure to discuss what YOU want out of this experience. Knowing what you want and having clear communication will help you establish a healthy research relationship.

   Question ideas:
     What research project would you expect me to be apart of?
     Will I be working under a graduate student
         (If yes, ask to meet them)
     What is the time comitment expectation
     Will you be expecting me to publish my work
         (You should know if you do/do not want a publication. Make sure the faculty members answer aligns with your wants)
     What will you expect out of me as an undergraduate researcher? 
         (Will you be expected to apply for grants? present your work? go to confrences?)
   

